This week I have been trained to use the 3D printers in order to complete the assignment. First a 3D modeling program is needed called Fusion360 this will allow me to create models that can be transferred over to the 3D printers. After downloading Fusion360 I follow the tutorials put forward to allow me to learn the program.  

The obvious first step would be opening up the program where I'm met with the interface I then right clicked the bottom square and created a sketch after the sketch is created I used the circle and rectangle tool to make this shape:

Shortly after I used the extrude tool and pulled the shapes upward turning the 2D shapes to 3D.

Next I created a sketch on my 3D shape which I would then extrude to create the final shape of the first tutorial.

I would then learn how to use constraints these constraints will allow me to define objects changing shapes in the sketch from having blue lines outling to black lines on the defined object. I start with a circle defined at a 50mm distance. 

Afterward I would create a rectangle that would have its sides constrained to the cirlce, meaning that the sides that are defined cannot move away from the circle. The height can change as it's not defined but the width can't change.

To further define the sketch I would create a 30mm line from the center of the circle I would use to define the rest of the rectangle. Now that the rectangle is fully define I would extrude the shape after deleting the top half of the rectangle to make this shape.

I would play around with fusion360 before I was able to move onto the next tutorial. After getting comfortable I started the next tutorial of making a radioactive symbol, I started in a new project page by sketching out a circle base that would become extruded by 2.5 mm

I would then create three more defined circles to help create the design of the radioactive. The center circle would be used to get the correct placement for a hexagon using the construction feature to allow me to more easily design the symbol.

The next step would be to create six lines around the hexagon these lines would be vital in the design process as if defined would space out perfectly to finish the sketch. The constuction lines don't extrude so they didn't get in the way while pulling up the desired portions of the sketch.

Next I would simply color the radioactive symbol in order to prepare for my next project.

I would decide to create the chemical symbol rather than the bio hazard option. Firstly I would take a screenshot of the image from the tutorial where I would then sketch out the proportions. This allows me to get a better understanding of what will be done in the designing process.

I again started by defining a circle which I would extrude by 2.5 mm. I would then get into the process of transferring what I had designed onto the extruded circle. Unfortunatley I got too sucked into ny recreation I didn't take as many screenshots as the radioactive symbol but nonetheless it should be clear that I've used all the skills learned in the tutorials in order to sketch out something that should be able to extrude out into the chemical symbol.

After filling in the gaps in the last image I successfully was able to extrude a symbol that highly resembles what I was aiming for. All I had to do next was color my design and export the file as an .stl so that I can print out what I've made. 

The file would be transferred over to a lab computer and inserted into a program called Prusaslicer. I would then again forget to take more pictures but still making sure the preview of my print was good until it was ready to be printed after selecting which printer I wanted to use. The file was exported to a usb that would get plugged into the designated 3D printer. The printer got prepared by preheating the machine in order to change the filament used. Afterward my design was ready to be printed. The print was successful on the first try and my print was finished.  


ACTUALLY WEEK 4::::::

The first thing I did was follow the tutorial to make the vase on fusion 360. This was a simple task to do. Afterward I imported the file to PrusaSlicer as an stl

I tested out changing the size of the vase but kept it the same size in the end.

I went into the print settings going to verticle shells and selecting "Spiral vase" I would also go to the Solid layers option and changed the bottom from 3 to 4 layers.

Going to preview mode I can see that my filled in shape is now hollowed out allowing for the vase to become usuable. 

I just had to make sure all my setting for printing were correct and all I had to do was export the G-code.

Printing the vase went pretty well nothing came up to complicate the print, the filament wasn't in need to be replaced so all I had to do was heat it up and print. When it was finished it came out pretty well. 

The next thing I had to do was create a watering can. I started by making a new project, creating a sketch, and using the ellipse tool where I would then extrude it 45mm. 

The next thing I would do is make a new plane on the front of my watering can. I would sketch a circle followed by a line on this new plane, the circle to signify where the spout of the can would come out and a line in order to create an angled plane that will give shape to my water spout.

With the new angled plane I would create another circle parallel with my previous one and extrude it. 

Next I would make two more angled planes with the addition of two more sketched circles that I would use to shape the piece of the can where the water will trickle out of.

I would then use the loft tool to create the grudual increase in size from the two circles.

Next I need to allow water to escape the can so I went back to sketch mode and used the circular pattern tool to create the holes needed.

Next I needed to extrude the holes so that it would realistically work if I printed it. To finish up the watering can so it can actually hold water I used the shell tool to hollow it out. 

There it is!
