This week I was tasked with using the laser cutter to create five swatches of varying material with the settings used to create them engraved (Vector and Raster Speed, Power, and Frequency) additionally we are tasked to create a box with a living hinge out of 1/8 ply wood. 

the designing process for the swatches was relatively simple as the swatch itself didn't have to be overly complex it just had to contain the setting used. I didn't go above and beyond with the design but I did add the name of the material used in addition to an opening that I could put a thumbtack into. 

after creating the swatch in adobe illustrator the file is transfered to a computer in the lab. After that the file will be printed after the design is brought to the left most corner, additionally in the printed settings it is vital that the placement option is also in the upper left corner to prevent loss of material. The printed file will be transferred over to two different applications: Epilog App and Epilog Engraver. The two apps have the purpose of allowing file information to be given to the laser cutter.

The program will show the inserted design and differeintiating what's being engraved to what's being cut with the engraved portion being black while the cut portion is red. In this program you are also able to change the laser cutter setting in order to actually properly cut your material as some settings will hurt the machine by being too powerful or the settings may be too weak and you waste material. 

After all the information is transferred over to the laser cutter the is some prep work needed to be done before I can go cut. First we turn on the air compressor followed by the exhaust before turning on the laser cutter, the reason for this would be to prevent a fire that would engulf the material, granted there will be something called a tail fire due to the fact we're working with a laser. After the laser cutter is turned on we have to jog and focus the laser, jogging the laser essentially just moves it we want to move it to the upper left corner of the material or as close to another cut in what material is being used in order to not waste anything. Focusing the laser will change the height of the laser cutting bed so that the laser can cut properly without hurting the bed or not cutting through the material. To find out if the bed is the correct distance away from the laser we're going to use a metal measuring device that should be barely touching the material from there if everything is in order we need to make sure the lasers origin is correct this can be achieved with the jog function by pressing down on the joystick when we are at the desired starting point. If that is all complete we can start laser cutting but you need to be in the area in case a fire was to engulf your cut.

The same process is repeated for all the swatches and most came out without issue aside for one or two recuts in the acryllic. There was also a mix up in my understanding of the instructions and I made two repeat swatches that I then turned into a paper and a magazine paper swatch. 

The next thing to do in my assignment would be to laser cut a flexbox, here is where I had the most problems but only in the printing process. First I went to this website: https://www.festi.info/boxes.py/index.html and selected the flexbox design, from there I simply put in the settings that I want after playing around with it for a bit. There I go off to generate the image that I can then open in adobe illistator. The preset design I am able to export after changing the stroke weight to 0.01mm anything higher will just be an engraving which will be added to one section of the box, I will be engraving my first and last initials. After I make sure everything is in order and export everything to epilog app and engraver. I grabbed the 1/8th wood material made sure my settings were usable and started cutting. The first cut was unsuccesful as it didn't go through the material fully only bits and pieces of it, ultimatley if I did a 2nd cut it would have gone through but I didn't think of that in the moment from there things devolved there was several attempted cuts with several failures I attempted by the 2nd failure in addition to help with the person on site to ensure that the settings used should work on the material given. The problem itself was the material wouldn't cut out around properly while the flexible areas would, there were a few instances of the flexible portions of the material turning to ash because of multiple run throughs which forced me to stay 2 more hours than expected. Eventually after many headaches and unfortunatley wasted material we finally got a working cut tragically one of the flex's snapped but I wasn't going to go through that once more and the box could assemble. Everything was able to connect with eachother and the box was complete.




WEEK 5 WRITE UP:::::::

CNC routers generally work by drilling and shaving wood to create a certain design. There are several different bits with several different purposes but they are all for the most part put in the machine the same way. There's the collet and the collet nut, bits are put into the collet while the collet is put within the collet nut the nut is then screwed into the CNC and is secured with wrenches tighting it. While the wood is being shaved down a lot of used material is moving around in order to prevent any issues caused by a build up a dust collection system is in the machine. You simply turn it on and sawdust will be sucked up into the tube.

There's a handheld controller used to adjust the spacing of the CNC router. The X, Y, and Z moves the portion holding the drill, additionally there is a usb slot ontop the controller allow the design to be implemented into the machine.

Before starting a cut the workbed must be focused with this blue tool. The reason being is this sets the origin, without it the machine might damage the bed by carving into an area without or containing too little material.

The software being used for the CNC router is called Vcarve. In order to not harm the machine we went through training and in this training we made a design on this software. During my training we wanted to test how three different cut circles would fit within a 0.8 mm carve. I started by creating a simple rectangle with 4 circles. After I tested the 3D preview of the design but it only shows the outline of the rectangle as of the moment. 

The next thing I did was make tabs for the profile cut around my rectangle follwed up by a cut for the circle carve and preview for my next three cuts. 

After creating tabs for the profile cuts we had found the circles were too close together and would interfere with eachother if I were to carve them out like this so I had spaced them out to prevent any error.

The only thing left to do was prepare the machine and cut. There wasn't any issue aside from a small bit of carving the table as we tried accounting for the tape that keeps the wood in place. The cut otherwise was successful. Unluckily two of the three circles didn't fit which was a good teaching point for further use. 

When I was brainstorming what I could design I was thinking "Ok what could I make that would be 1. creative from other projects and 2. That I would enjoy" I started looking into things I enjoy for inspiration while doing this an idea sparked in my head. I thought what if I recreated something from a game but made it Wheaton themed? I got really exitced at the thought and started looking a few different games popped in my head but I decided to use Pokemon as inspiration as it was a huge part of my childhood. I had found the perfect object for this assignment: a Wheaton themed Pokeball.

For this project I knew I was going to need two programs to get me going 1. Adobe Illistrator to make a sketch skeleton 2. Fusion360 to make a colored 3D model. 

The sketching phase was simple I just had to get a reference image and reverse engineer the shapes like so:

Now going into fusion360 with reference in hand I started by sketching out the outer shell with the middle gap adding a line through the middle for the next step.

The line was used in order to allow the revolve tool to shape out the two halfs of a sphere.

I used the shell tool to hollow out the center for later use.

I repeated the same step as before minus the rectangle and shelling to add the inner circle.

Next I offset a plane behind the ball and pushed it to the front. This was done so I can sketch off the center button with an additional W to represent Wheaton.

After sketching I extruded the sketches leading me to the final step: coloring.

I did a very basic color scheme of white and blue to represent the Wheaton theme. 

In order to make this work in terms of Subtractive Manufactering I split the two bodies to show how you'd have to break the design into sections. The machine has to simply hollow out two half spheres, carve out one sphere (or make two half spheres), and then subtract out the rings/button follwed by assembling everything after painting to create this finished product. The price of this would be around $20 if made out of wood. 

Overall I'm rather proud of this granted there could be improvements it's not perfect by any means but it did come out well and I'm happy about that.
